**Title: Network Trait marker for working memory deficit in
Schizophrenia: a multi-site study**

**Abstract**

Working memory impairment is documented as a core symptom/syndrome and
related to cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. Understanding the
pathology is very important to diagnosis and treatment of schizophrenia.
While the working memory system is regarded as a complex system/process
including both a central/core modality independent component and some
slave modality specific storage buffer. The core regions mainly
comprised the frontal-parietal areas are known to be responsible for
some higher-level procedures in working memory and have been evident to
be impaired when the patients performing a working memory task. In this
study, we attempt to find whether functional connectivity within the
core working memory network is impaired at resting state. By recruiting
a large scale multi-site resting-state fmri datasets, we found that
working memory deficits can be characterized by reduced functional
connectivity among the caudal LPFC, left IFG, left AI and right IPS.
Association analysis of the impaired functional connectivity and
clinical scores reveal no significant effect. Our findings indicate that
the impaired resting-state functional connectivity within
frontal-parietal core working memory network may act as a proxy of
impaired top-down control in the working memory procedure, and thus lead
to cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. These reduced patterns provide
stable trait marker for the disease and will help us to approach
treatment.

**Introduction**

Working memory is typically/ conventionally defined as the ability to
maintain and manipulate information over short periods. WM has been
shown to be impaired in many neurological and psychiatric syndromes
including Schizophrenia. It was thought to be tightly associated with
cognitive deficits in Schizophrenia (Green 2000). Examination of the
underlying neurological mechanism provided us with insight into the
causes, progression, and even treatment of schizophrenia. Neuroimaging
tools such as functional MRI has proven itself a potential technique to
find the pathology of working memory impairment in schizophrenia with a
large body of work has demonstrated that such patients have abnormity
characterized by imaging (Goldman-Rakic, 1991; Park and Holzman, 1992).
WM itself is a complex process that is multidimensionally related to the
psychosis (D’Esposito, 2015). Results in the previous studies have been
equivocal, and replication of experiment is needed. Most of these
studies focus on task related abnormal activation or connectivity when
patients perform a working memory task. However, there is still no
conclusion on the pathology of WM. This may be due to the heterogeneous
configurations of tasks and the small sample sizes of the most imaging
studies. However, seldom researchers have pay attention to the
abnormality of interaction within the WM network, which might occur to
the resting state fmri of the patients. To overcome this, we assess the
resting connectivity of core WM networks in a multi-site study
framework. Such experiment configuration would help to find stable trait
impairment in Schizophrenia, disregarding their age, sex, disease
progress etc. (不对). To make our study powerful and reliable, we
collect a large cohort of patients from seven hospitals across China.

There has been abundant imaging studies on WM deficits in Schizophrenia,
but the differences among the tasks and material make it difficult to
make a conclusion (consensus). Some studies have found evidence for
different patterns of functional connectivity during different working
memory task conditions (e.g., as a function of load, stimulus type, or
task phase). Such findings suggest that functional connectivity changes
could reflect differences in task engagement or responsivity of brain
networks to modulation, rather than stable changes that persist across
all task states. On the other hand, working memory itself is a complex
system that consists of different components. It is widely agreed that
WM involves several different component processes. One popular and
original model of WM is a system encoding and maintaining
modality-specific short-term memory and central executive component to
manipulate the information. (能否放到前面？) Some studies have found
both impairments in the modality-specific perception component and the
later manipulation component. There has been evidence of multi-modality
deficits: visual spatial, visual object, verbal, and other types of
working memory. Recent study also found different modality based working
memory measures that were correlated with spontaneous low-frequency
fluctuations at rest in different areas (Wessel O. van Dam, 2015).
Another study found the intrinsic MPFC-DLPFC anti-correlations are
related to behavioral measures of WM capacity while these
anti-correlations and the behavioral measures are attenuated in the
older adults (relationship exists between variation in WM capacity and
the intrinsic functional architecture of the human brain as measured by
resting-state functional connectivity) (Joseph B.Keller,2015). Zou
(2012) found that resting-state activity could predict subsequent
task-evoked brain responses and behavioral performance. In a recent
meta-analysis, the author draws attention to a consistent and restricted
"core network" emerged from conjunctions across analyses of specific
task designs and contrasts. This distributed network was believed to be
active in WM task ignoring the task type, stimulus type, and WM load and
may be act as a base part in WM. We restrict our analysis in these core
networks.

Schizophrenia has often been conceived as a disorder of connectivity
between components of large-scale brain networks (Lynall, 2010). A
growing number of studies have reported altered functional connectivity
in schizophrenia during putatively “task-free” states and during the
performance of cognitive tasks. (Grega Repovs 2012) A few studies have
focused on the relationship between WM impairment and disturbed
functional connectivity both in the resting state and under various
task. The connectivity could be modulated by the task demands. Some
imagining studies reporting altered patterns of interregional functional
connectivity in patients with schizophrenia during working memory task
performance (Meyer-Lindenberg et al., 2001; Quintana et al., 2003;
Schlosser et al., 2003a; Whalley et al., 2005). However, seldom studies
have investigate the functional connectivity in resting state.
Connectivity within the DMN and FP has been found significantly
different between? resting state and 0-back, and was further modulated
by memory load. (Grega Repovs 2012) Yet most of the existing find are
during working memory tasks, we are still eager to find whether we could
detect functional connectivity impairments in resting state, which may
be a potential trait marker of WM impairment in schizophrenia patients.

**Discussion**

Our results showed reduced resting-state functional connectivity from
the caudal LPFC to the left AI and left IFG, pars opercularis. The LPFC
is confirmed to be a core region responsible for higher-level
representation or manipulation in working memory processes (D’Esposito,
2015). Meta-analysis finds evidence for the consistent activation of
caudal LPFC across different putative executive functions (Nee, 2013).
It also showed a working memory load-dependent effect in (Rosttchy,
2012), whereas the rostral LPFC was not. This may indicate that the
caudal LPFC was directly involved in manipulating the working memory
storage. Another study (Barbalat, 2011) observed impaired control from
the left rostral LPFC to caudal LPFC in schizophrenia. Earlier study
showed the activation in caudal LPFC regions negatively correlated with
the disorganization syndrome score of patients (Barbalat, 2009).
Although these findings are under the context of cognition control,
there might be similar effect in working memory because LPFC belong to a
common network subserving a wide domain of cognitive tasks including
working memory (Duncan, 2000). Our resting state results support that
there might be dysfunction in the caudal LPFC, which may indicate
functional impairment when processing working memory items. The
impairment may propagate down to the other frontal areas in a
hierarchical working memory network, as we found a reduced connectivity
to the left AI and left IFG. These are two important regions in working
memory. The inferior frontal gyrus/anterior insula (IFG/AI) was
suggested to be involved in elaborate attentional and working memory
processing (Mattie Tops, 2011). Some evidence has suggested the IFG/AI
might involve in cognitive control in working memory tasks. These
ventral cortico-limbic control pathways that include the IFG/AI, may
adapt to working memory context that differ in the level of
predictability. Meta-analysis has find consistent activation in
bilateral mid-ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (BA45, 47) within
different N-back tasks which suggested a modality and task dependent
involvement in working memory (Owen, 2005). The inhibitory processes
appear to be mediated by area 45 (left lateral prefrontal structures)
(Jonides, 1998) in working memory tasks. For example, Owen, Petrides and
their colleagues [6,7] proposed that the mid-ventrolateral region
(Brodmann’s area [BA] 45/47) supports the organization of response
sequences based on information retrieved from posterior areas, whereas
the mid-dorsolateral region (BA 9/46) supports the active manipulation
or monitoring of information within working memory (Patricia A
Carpenter, 2000). Another within subject study find the left and right
IFG showed a conjunction between working memory and inhibition tasks
within subjects, which indicate some component of executive function may
interactive with the working memory system in working memory tasks
(MacNab, 2008). Moreover, there is evidence of structure abnormality of
these areas in schizophrenia patients. For example, the anterior insula
is closely associated with working memory processes in healthy
participants and shows gray matter reduction in schizophrenia (Clos,
2014). Cortical thinning in inferior frontal and insular is related to
dysfunctional brain activation/deactivation during working memory task
in schizophrenic patients (Nuria Pujol, 2013). Another review gives
attention to the role of AI in switching between other large-scale
networks to facilitate access to attention and working memory resources
when a salient event is detected (Vinod Menon, 2010). The right IFG has
been suggested to perform a general-purpose inhibitory function, and is
related to inhibition of irrelevant memory from entering WM (Anderson et
al. 2004; Anderson and Levy 2009, Nee, 2013). (Johan Eriksson, 2015)
reviewed that attention is understood to be a cornerstone of
working-memory processed. When the perceptual input no longer is
present, sustained attention along with a rehearsal process is crucial
for maintaining the information in working memory. Individual
differences in working memory capacity are also showed to be determined
primarily by variability ability in attentional control deployment. In
line with these existing findings, we suspect that the schizophrenia
patients may lack the attention, the inhibition control ability to
maintain, and manipulating the working memory items while not disturbed
by unrelated staff. (加一下静息态预测任务的研究)

Apart from caudal LPFC, we also found connectivity reduction in the
parietal lobe. The intraparietal sulcus (IPS) is a region known to be
active during states of high attention to sensory stimulation or
performance of attention-demanding tasks, the attention control network,
or task positive network. It seems to be a spatial working memory
specific region, however, evidence have showed it is anatomically
organized in a topographic maps of multisensory attention (Jeffrey S.
Anderson, 2010). In a visual working memory task, the subjects’
individual behavioral VWM capacity was predicted by neuronal synchrony
in a network in which the IPS was the most central hub (J. Matias Palva,
2009). With other hub areas like insula, cingulate and orbitofrontal
structures formulating a cinguloopercular attention system that
underlies the task set maintenance. Taken together, we suspect that the
reduced connectivity between the IPS and bilateral IFG may indicate
inefficiency in processing novel information in working memory.

Although there have been mounting evidence of altered LPFC connectivity
with inferior parietal cortex, we did not detect a significant effect
between the left caudal ROI and the IPS.

The frontal-parietal working memory core networks

The complex pattern of hyper-activation and hypo-activation found across
studies implies that researchers should consider the entire network of
regions involved in a given task when making inferences about the
biological mechanisms of schizophrenia (David C. Glahn, 2005). The
organization of human WM has long been the topic of psychological models
(Atkinson and Shiffrin, 1968; Hebb, 1949), with maybe the most
influential having been proposed by Baddeley and Hitch (1974). According
to Baddeley and Hitch’s model, the working memory system can be coarsely
divided into a central executive module and some peripheral modality
specific components. Working memory is the result of various
combinations of processes; no processes (and correspondingly no brain
structures) are unique or specific to working memory (Eriksson, 2015).
Many brain regions interact during working memory, including "executive"
regions in the PFC, parietal cortex, and basal ganglia, as well as
regions specialized for processing the particular representations to be
maintained, such as the fusiform face area for maintaining face
information. Persistent neural activity in various brain regions
accompanies working memory and is functionally necessary for maintenance
and integration of information in working memory. Although there are
different types of material modality, working memory task or contrast,
large amount of previous related studies consistently find abnormality
in the frontal-parietal network in patients. This network is well
recognized as a core for higher order cognition such as working memory
and executive control (Duncan and Owen, 2000, Owen, 2005). We restrict
our study within a core working memory network which was identified in a
meta-analysis research, mainly comprise the frontal-parietal areas, in
order to eliminate the bias of different material modality, different
processes during the tasks. The reason for such design is that we are
interested in the fundamental and underlying causes of WM deficits of
the patients. Our findings of the impaired functional connectivity are
mainly located in a generic frontal-parietal network including the
caudal LPFC, the left AI, the left IFG, and the right IPS. Previous
studies of SZ patients when they perform WM tasks provide some evidence
for impairment in such a core network. A PET study has found impaired
interaction between right lateral prefrontal cortex and bilateral
inferior parietal region in SZ patients compared with normal patients
during working memory processing (Jae-Jin Kim, 2003). A study confirmed
decreased connectivity between R\_IPL and R\_VLPFC, which connection was
associated with the task score/performance in visuospatial n-back task
(Yann Quide, 2013). Hao-Yang Tan, 2006 find a compensation role of
ventral prefrontal areas to the dorsal prefrontal areas with the
increase of working memory load in the high-and low-performing patient
groups. They also find relatively greater connectivity between ventral
prefrontal cortex and PPC in patients while comparison subjects had
greater functional connectivity between the dorsal prefrontal cortex and
posterior parietal cortex. (怎么说核心网络？) There are some evidence
about the structure deficits in IFG and insular in relation to
dysfunctional brain activation/deactivation during working memory task
in schizophrenia patients (Nuria Pujol, 2013). Recently, a coordinate
based meta anlysis confirmed that MFG(BA9), rIFG(BA44) showed decrease
in neural activation of schizophrenia unaffected relatives while right
frontopolar (BA10), and left IPL(BA40) and bilaterally thalamus showed
increased activation , both during working memory tasks(Zhang R, 2016).

In Rottschy, 2012, the WM network was identified by functional
neuroimaging using quantitative coordinate-based meta-analysis over
almost 200 individual experiments. By pooling various working memory
tasks, a main network was identified which mainly comprise the
fronto-parietal network. By eliminating the effect of specific task
designs and contrasts, a more restricted "core" network emerged from
conjunctions analyses. A core network independently of the specific
aspects and task features was identified using conjunction analysis.
This network mainly comprise the dorsal area 44, anterior insula,
(pre-)SMA and IPS. The dorsal areas 44/45 and the pre-SMA are part of
the phonological loop, a subsystem that response for verbal working
memory material maintenance. There has been evidence that the dorsal
region of Broca's area is active only during the first part of the delay
period, and is involved in the formation of an articulatory rehearsal
program. Generally, the same brain regions dedicated to sensory
processing are believed to store sensory information during delay
periods and working-memory task performance. A conjunction of verbal vs.
non-verbal material in Rottschy's study revealed that the BA44/45 area
might also involve in non-verbal WM tasks, that it may not be a
modality-specific area in working memory. The reduced functional
connectivity may underpin the verbal working memory deficits in
schizophrenia. The previous research has established that the PFC is
causally involved in normal working memory functioning. However, there
is yet no consensus on the details of the functional organization of the
PFC. In fact, the lateral PFC clusters in the main network was
subdivided to two, that the abstraction level of goals and task rules
are suggested to peak in rostral PFC and decrease to the caudal part.
The caudal LPFC register a working memory load effect while the rostral
part was not.

Working memory impairment in Schizophrenia

A large amount of studies focused on working memory in schizophrenia,
most of these are by using task fmri.

Resting state and working memory

The ability to predict task performance with resting state data is
unproven. A few studies investigate the relationship between resting
state signal and task state signal. In (M Hampson,2006), they found
performance on the working memory task was positively correlated with
the strength of functional connection between the PCC and MFG/vACC, two
regions with the Default mode network, both during the working memory
and at rest. This study raise the possibility that the individual
differences in coupling strength between these two regions at rest
predict differences in cognitive abilities important for this working
memory task. Another study showed fractional amplitude of low frequency
fluctuations (fALFF) at rest is correlated with domain and
demand-specific working memory performance (van Dam, W.O, 2015). The
other study found that smaller amplitudes of low-frequency BOLD
oscillations during rest, measured by fALFF, were significantly
associated with poorer cognitive performance, sometimes similarly in
both groups and sometimes only in SZ, in regions known to subserve
sustained attention and working memory. Taken together, these data
suggest that the magnitude of resting-state BOLD oscillations shows
promise as a biomarker of cognitive function in health and disease
(Fryer SL, 2015). Some other studies provide evidence for a correlation
between working memory performance and functional network integration on
different levels of network organization (Alavash, 2015).

There have been studies showing structure deficits associated with
working memory performance, which indicated that both task impairment
and dysconnection in rest might have common bases in structure.

Multi-site analysis

As we considered, the scanner, imaging protocol, and clinical measures
may bias a single site imaging study. To overcome these drawbacks, we
acquired high quality fMRI data with common protocol across different
sites from unique samples of schizophrenia patients with the same ethnic
origin, as a potentially representative participant sample. The subjects
are also recruited by the same criteria and the clinical scores are
assessed by the standards. Despite these control measures, the data and
the statistical results may be influenced by the differences in
psychopathology, exposure to antipsychotic medication and the scanners
used for image acquisitions across patients from different sites scanner
type and some other potential effects. In order to assess the
replication of the effects from the entire dataset within smaller
subsets, Meta-analysis is used here to pooling results from single site
and to increase the statistical power (J A. Turner, 2013, S G,
Costafreda, 2009). To model/capture the heterogeneous induced by the
different subjective recruitment strategies, cognitive paradigms,
acquisition software and hardware, and the individual variance in
coregistering to the template, we treat site factor as a random effect.
By applying such multi-site experiment design and pooling strategy, we
were able to, first, reduce the possibility of biased results in a
single site and provide a reliable and generalized results; second,
extract novel insights from existing large-scale datasets by increasing
the statistical power; third, the sample we collected is a represented
right-handed Han Chinese population which was collected from hospitals
distributed across China. Despite the differences in scanner type and
the potential bias of subjects across sites, these may also benefit that
the variation may be covered by the large sample size, the results may
be generalize over sites and are more liked to be substantial.

Limitations

The present findings must be considered with respect to several
limitations.

1 working memory 的复杂性，是否能单用core来衡量

Some researchers suspect that working memory is a distributed system
rather than represented in a few isolated core areas. There's evidence
showed that schizophrenia patients showed diffuse impairment across
brain. These phenomena lead to the possibility that the impairment in WM
networks are also distributed within the WM networks. This may explain
the difficulty in finding consistent results in imaging research. The
bad behavior measure may be composite of weak effect of different
regions within the networks. (但是不能解释不同中心的不同？) Some
networks studies focus on whole brain network properties such as the
global clustering index etc. Such kind of studies is limitless in
helping to understand different dimension in the disease. The advantage
of our design is it focuses on the core regions in related with core
deficits in the disease that may be in related to most symptoms in the
disease. Nevertheless, this may lack the specificity when explaining
symptoms such as hallucination or some modality specific impairment even
in the working memory tasks. It’s not able give us the knowledge how the
higher order networks interact with lower level regions during the
working memory tasks from this study although we suspect that there
should be some impairment of these interactions.???

2\. We did not find any association between these impaired functional
connectivity with PANSS scores (PANSS total, PANSS general, PANSS
negative and PANSS positive). One reason is that schizophrenia is a
multi-dimensional disease and these scores does not reflect one spectral
of impairment like working memory but is a combination of different
deficits. Another reason is that the association is too weak to detect.

As pointed in (Duncan 2000), the frontal-parietal networks are comprised
of core regions, which may involve in multiple cognitive procedures.
Because we did not detect the direct association of imaging finding to
behavior, we are not sure whether these impairments are also related to
other behavior domain.

**Conclusion**

In conclusion, our investigation provides evidence for working memory
resting-state function network impairment in schizophrenia, mainly
involving the functional connectivity in the frontal-parietal network.
Our findings are draw from a large-scale multi-site study with subjects
collected from seven hospitals in China which lead to powerful and
reliable conclusion that the working memory deficits are mainly ascribed
to the dysfunction of high-level nodes comprises the “core” working
memory network. The results may informed us the causes of this disease
and facilitating future study on the pathology and treatment of this
disease.
